Group,

There's another new version of APRSISCE for Windows Mobile just posted to the
Files section. I discovered a fairly serious resource consumption that causes
Windows Mobile to run out of resources and lock up if you drive around at a low
zoom level causing lots of OpenStreetMap files to paint. This resource leak has
been fixed along with the following changes.

1) Reworked the APRS-IS network handling to improve responsiveness and reduce
load on the device.

2) Double-clicking the "APRS OK" window no longer brings up a series of network
devices, but instead shows traffic statistics for the APRS-IS connection
including packets and bytes sent and received for this session.

3) Reworked where stations are painted on the OSM tiles. They weren't quite
landing on streets at larger zoom levels. It uses the old way until all tiles
have been filled in, so don't be alarmed if you see the stations "jump" right
after the map completes. You should only see this the first time you're in an
area while the OSM tiles are loading from the network instead of from the cache.

4) The OSM map is now clipped to the old circle and doesn't overflow around and
behind the various other windows.

5) Double-clicking an empty space on the map will popup OpenStreetMap tile
statistics if any tiles have been loaded in that session. Eventually, I hope to
also show the status of the on-device cache of tiles by zoom level.

6) Increased the available zoom levels. On my 320x240 AT&T Tilt, I can now zoom
out to 524 miles instead of the old 256.

7) Reworked how tiles are cached on CE. You might want to locate the OSMTiles
folder (probably in the root of your device) and delete it and all files within
it. The new caching layer uses directories that exactly mirror OSM's URLs.

8) To store the OSM cache on a Storage Card (assuming you have one), close
APRSISCE and edit the APRSISCE.xml file that should have synced to your desktop.
Locate the <OSM.Path> argument and set it to <OSM.Path>/Storage
Card/OSMTiles/</OSM.Path>. Save the file and wait for it to sync back to your
device before running APRSISCE. You should then see an OSMTiles folder on your
Storage Card.

9) The OSM Tile Cache now prefetches tiles in anticipation of your movement or
zooming. It fetchs one tile out in each ordinal direction from the screen along
with all tiles one closer zoom below and one further zoom above.

10) While APRSISCE is fetching OSM tiles, you'll see a yellow circle expanding
from the center of the map. Each jump is one tile. When it reaches the outer
circle, it has worked off all queued prefetches. It prioritizes the queue, so
it'll still get the missing visible tiles first.

Let me know what you think and let me know what you'd like to see enhanced
and/or changed, especially if you encounter any bugs!

Lynn (D) - Author of APRSISCE - (APRS message me at KJ4ERJ-12)
