Here's what's new in the APRSISCE6P100403.zip and APRSIS32100403.zip

MAJOR BUGFIX: If you're running as an IGate, the program was gating messages received over RF back out via the SAME RF!  This is fixed to only transmit messages heard from -IS, not RF.

Corrected timestamp in Telemetry popup to be local time instead of GMT

"Group" messages per spec (ALL QST CQ APRSIS-CE - aprs101.pdf Page 72) (Julian G4ILO)

(I'm planning to have the client always capture and display messages addressed to "APRSIS-CE". and/or "APRSIS-32" (both will do both) just like all Kenwoods display messages addressed to "KW" - see page 73 (83 in reader) of aprs101.pdf.  I'll also be adding ALL, QST, and CQ per the spec).

Sending messages to any defined "Group" automatically disables Ack and won't go into Pending Messages nor retry (If it's truly a group, noone will ack anyway!)

Allow the configuration of other "promiscuous" callsigns for which messages would also be received to support upgraded callsigns (Colin M6XSD 2E0XSD)
Support user-configurable <MessageGroup>xxxx</MessageGroup>.  Messages addressed to these callsigns will be received and displayed but not notified nor acked.  You can use this for promisuously receiving messages from other callsigns, hopefully your own upgraded calls!  Callsigns are complete and must include -SSIDs to match.

Note that for many of these new messaging features to work, you need to add t/m (DON'T do this yet!!!) to your filter or have the appropriate calls as buddies (THIS works).  I'm still working on that one...  t/m will give you a stack of calls at 0,0.

Clear residual course/speed display in station popup if most recent packet didn't contain one.  Calculated speed will still display between position updates.

Record and recall last known altitude (<Altitude>) in XML configuration file.  This will allow a momentary GPS position to be remembered and used when GPS is disabled.  You can also manually edit this to set a fixed position altitude.  If you drag the map and hit Transmit, the altitude probably goes back to zero.

Internally define telemetry even if disabled.  Disabling telemetry only disables transmission, not internal tracking and definition.  (You'll soon have a local battery graph!)

Add Configure / Beacon submenu to turn on and off components of the beacon.  "Why" adds the Transmit Pressure that triggered the beacon.

Simplified internal handling of many of the Enables.  Let me know if I broke anything with the check-marks.

Reorganize packet information extractor in preparation for better message handling - Again, let me know if anything broke!

Toggling Configure / Beacon / HHMMSS on automatically turns on Configure / Beacon / Timestamp.  Turning off Configure / Beacon / Timestamp disables HHMMSS.

Don't IGate duplicate packets from IS to RF, probably heard it direct or via a digi?

Display Telemetry Interval and version on ME's Telemetry Popup (Dave N8PU)

Optimize display of Altitude and add diagnostics.  I saw one instance where altitude was not displayed for a portion of a track even though the packets included it.  Found that issue and fixed it on 4/2/2010!  (I think)

Internal diagnostic messages have been categorized and divided into TraceLogs.  They are now individually enablable (Enables / Logging) and separately viewable (Enables / View Logs).  There will be a Wiki Page describing their entire operation.

Beacon transmit pressure has been modified to only consider Start/Stop and Heading if the current GPS coordinate is different than the last beaconed coordinate down to the transmitting resolution. This should reduce the "Duplicate Position" errors showing in aprs.fi's raw display.  The Last: coordinate is displayed in the Me popup on APRSIS32.

Altitude is now preserved (not slammed to 0) when a packet is received without altitude.  This was causing the displayed track altitudes to disappear depending on the last packet received.

Only transmit outgoing messages via RF interfaces if the target station is known and was heard via RF to start with.

If sending a message to a group message target, don't request and ack, there probably won't be one coming back.

The Telemetry popup now includes the Telemetry Interval when looking at Me.




To Dos:  (Still Incomplete and getting LONGER instead of SHORTER!)

Top item to be done: UI-View Maps, Multi-Port Configuration, Objects, and Message Overhaul

Display improvements:
Dynamically adjust ALL screen panels for maximum size displayed
Extend RF View filter to be by configured interface, eliminate if no RF interfaces are configured
Remove screen elements configurably and/or enable/disable (like GPS)
Rotate icons to show direction of travel (beaconed or calculated) (Dave N8PU)
Custom MessageBox() implementation to support Enable/Sound & Station icons & more
Display grid locator in station info popup (Julian G4ILO)
"Flatten" circle to be a true scale from center
Optionally draw (accurate) PHG circles (View option)
Find a better icon scaling algorithm based on screen size & scale
Detect and highlight source of delayed duplications
Simultaneously track multiple targets in separate circles (Win32 only)
Highlight station list for stations with any of a configurable "HighlightPath" list of "bad" paths (RELAY, WIDE, WIDE3-*, ...)
Option to display callsign instead of "Me" and/or completely suppress the "Me" station. (Rod VE1BSK)
Display "Me" with a different symbol than is beaconed (allows for red dot) (Fred N7FMH)
Support +/- symbol size adjustment for Me and/or Tracked station symbol (separately) (Fred N7FMH)
Tab-based station selection (highlighting or expanding as you tab around) with popup-on-entry for keyboard support
Mouse-hover popup describing screen section? (Configurably disabled/time-triggered/re-enablable)
Check cascading popups (RF, Symbols, ...) if any submenu item is checked
Sort stations so most recent is on top for symbols (most recent last) and reverse for labels/altitude (most recent first) for priority placement.



Mapping Support:
Support checking revision of tiles when loading, via OpenStreetMap.org's /status URL.
OSM Tile access timestamping, revision checking, intelligent purger, grid (pixel?) cache display
Find a way to mark tiles referenced on Windows Mobile without slowing down map loading (queue references to fetcher thread?).
UI-View/.INF map support (Julian G4ILO)
Does anyone know if UI-View correctly scales the N/S via the Mercator projection or does it linearly map the point in the vertical?
Ability to override OSM map tiles for specific areas/zoom levels (Ordnance Survey maps showing contours, footpaths) (Julian G4ILO) (Colin M6XSD) (2/20/2010 6:20am)
Precision Mapping Streets & Traveller (Alan WA4SCA)
Use HTTP/1.1 in OSM Tile Fetcher to improve throughput (multiple tile fetches on a single connection).
Support the -180/180 latitude wrap with closest display tile
Allow non-initial (re)configuration of location for OSMTiles cache (w/o editing XML)
Internal support for OSM Map updates (Julian G4ILO)
Deeper zoom on prefetch (4x or straight zoom?) (Fred N7FMH)(kc9gqr)
Map Magnification (and corresponding coordinate adjustment)
Support configuration options for Osmarender and/or Cycle Map tiles from OSM (what about white?) (James VE6SRV) (Fred N7FMH)
Display zoom level on screen and allow user to further restrict available levels (Fred N7FMH)



Filter Features:
Track station as Buddy (just station) or Friend (moving range circle)
Configurable ranges for Me, Tracked, Dragged



User/Alternate Input:
Numeric keypad shortcuts to some functions (2 for up, 8 down, 4 left, 6 right) (Sean Brad Inggs ZR5BBL) (Chris SQ5NWI)
Sprint Touch Pro 2 zoom slider (http://www.htc.com/us/content/images/phones/touch-pro2-sprint-Support-124.png) (Jason K2ENG) (Noel W8TVI)
Review keyboard access to all click/double-click features
Find station dialog (enter callsign to center)


Cool Features:
GPX track saving for any station (w/inserted comments?) (Julian G4ILO) (Jerome WD4CWG)
"Age" decay the saved track over a configurable period of time (Gary WB0BZR)
Web port for remote viewing (PNG) of current screen
Screen save in PNG format.
Alerts on various station activity (Tim G4VXE)
"Station Movement Alarm" (Gary WB0BZR)
Arrival alarm (Dave N8PU)
Add Today screen element for direct access to client (w/messages pending display?)
Dead-reckoned "shadow" station running out ahead of the last beaconed position (for how long/how far?)(Only tracked station(s) or Buddies/Friends?)
"Highlight Path" from a configurable list of "Interesting" paths (WIDE7-7) (Fred N7FWM)
Alternate Net (aprs101.pdf Chap 4) via user-specified ToCall
Make APRSIS32 work under Wine (David WE1U) (Chris KJ4HPQ) (Josh W4SGC)
Display and set "Destination Waypoints" (http://wa8lmf.net/bruninga/APRS-docs/MOBILE.TXT)
Implement a compass direction/distance screen for homing in on GeoCaches.
Lightning bolts from station to station that was recently involved in an RF exchange (possibly even red->green coloring to indicate direction), Only on reasonable zooms and probably only Win32.  You'd be able to visualize the Digis and IGates and possibly their interactions in near realtime.
Pulse a station icon when a new packet was received.  Only on reasonable zooms and probably only Win32.
Interpret severe weather packets and shade map w/transparency (Fred N7FWM).  (Bradley KC9GQR)


Parser/Station Information:
CWOP feed (maybe Win32 only)
Weather parsing and graphing
Telemetry parsing and graphing, Configure telemetry rate, include OWN telemetry graphs!
<IGATE capabilities parsing and graphing (and now <RFID?)
Parse and display Frequency object information
Add RF traffic and IGate rates to Telemetry
Parse and display grid-square beacons appropriately (whatever that means)


Messaging Subsystem:
CQSRVR custom support, auto-keepalive, queries
Enhanced message support (Julian G4ILO)
Support remaining message-based queries, Configurable suppression of auto-answers
If replying to a displayed message for another -SSID, spoof the source as that -SSID and watch for corresponding acks (Fred N7FMH)
Bulletin support - Sending and Viewing (Julian G4ILO) (http://aprs.fi/bulletin/)
Remember and provide for re-display of received messages.
If target station's platform is known, format message sending screen accordingly.
Support more ?APRSx queries
Select specific RF Interfaces for message transmission
Thumbnail map (zoomable, of course) of user's current location in QSO window
Auto-adjust filter for MessageGroups, or suppress message-only stations from CloseStation list and Stations scroller?
Support Messages / Recent Messages to show list of recently read messages for quick recall
Send Message on RF to only those channels that heard the station



APRS Objects:
Support object creation and beaconing
Support sending "Item-As-Message" to stations
Interpret sent "Item-As-Message" for local display


Power Management:
Program-configurable screen dim, blank, and power control (Jeff KC8NNO)
Figure out how to use WiFi rather than Cellular data when available (Julian G4ILO)
Auto GPS disable if no fix within a minimum time (Julian G4ILO) (1/26/2010 8:25pm)


Installation/First Use/Configuration:
Installation .CAB file w/Icon as well (Kevin N1KCG-12)
Better, explicit, Buddy configuration (reserve one for tracking)
Preserve comments in XML configuration file (if parser even gives them to me) (Dave N8PU)
Multiple profile capability with quick switch (beaconing, Icon, status, and such; Hiking, Biking, Mobile, QTH/Stationary)
WinCE support (Mustafa AYDIN 1/29/2010 12:05pm) (David VE7MDT 2/1/2010 9:49am)
XML item based advanced configuration for things not on the Configuration dialog.
Dynamic configuration changes/menu enables to avoid program restarts (Julian G4ILO)
Split Configure into multiple sub-menus (KISS, AGW, NMEA, GENIUS)
"Coordinate Picker" dialog for centering, objects, Item-As-Message
Support input of altitude for transmission for fixed stations
Icon selection dialog showing all (or more than one) icon (Keyboard accessible)
Support the APRSISCE/32 command line containing a reference to an XML configuration file (Gary WB0BZR)
About box hangs connecting to version server if IP address changes from cellular to WiFi (DNS resolution issue?) (KJ4ERJ-12)



Metric units (Julian G4ILO)
Make Local Hops, Recent Minutes, and Duplicate Seconds configuration options
Make Message Retry parameters configuration options


RF Interfaces:
Restrict Gating to RF to only those channels that heard the station
Digipeater support with configured list of WIDEn-N aliases, Default to TEMP1-1, always digi own callsign-SSID
Dumb terminal emulator (Craig KI6WLP)
UI-View-compatible enter/exit KISS mode command file support (John Q1EUH)
KISS TNC initialization files (adopt UI-View syntax)
Do something with the Xmit checkboxes on port configuration dialogs
AGWPE(pro) bi-directional support w/Port spec as well (Randy WF5X) (Andy AB9FX)
Transmit support for AGW as well as Port selection for both receive and transmit
MultiPort Status Monitor (multi-line or alternating APRS OK?) w/Log view windows
Link-specific status text and paths (Phillip ZL2TZE) & Proportional Pathing (Fred N7FMH)
Warn or disallow multi-selection of a single COM port for multiple I/Fs (Colin M6XSD)
Configuration of receive-only, staggered transmission, and/or beacons vs IGate per port
-IS to RF gate functionality to a) gate none (as it does today), b) gate all messages to stations "recently" "heard" locally, or c) gate only Acks to stations from whom a message was recently received (and said ack not heard via RF yet after a short random delay?).  C would accomplish a PSK-63 initiated QSO without risking flooding the channel with stuff that doesn't need to be there.
Support Kenwood D7x0 in non-KISS (Text/Converse?) mode with interleaved NMEA GPS feed (James VE6SRV 3/4/2010 12:55 PM)
Support true WIDEn-N Digi including SSn-N aliases (N5VJA)
Support $NMEA strings interleaved on a TEXT port for TT4's GRELAYBITS / GRELAYRATE
Support waypoint interpretation for TT4 GWAYMODE along with TSWPT and WYPTXT and PKTOCOM / PKTICOM (NMEA ($GPWPL & $PGRMW), Kenwood ($PKWDWPL ) or Magellan ($PMGNWPL) format)
Support actual TEXT port support (Converse mode w/TNC-supplied headers) and rename current TEXT for APRS Messenger


GPS Support:
(Done 2010/03/18)? GPS "Jitter" control when "stationary" (Paul KJ4DXK) (Disable Genius Beaconing?)
Update Bluetooth Port Enumerator to show all under Windows Mobile & remove hard-coded, all-ports listed in dropdown, hack
Support Mic-E and GridSquare beacon formats


Network Features:
Asynchronous TCP/IP connections & reading (solves hangs)
Timeout on OSM Tile fetcher (solves stalls)
Record/Recall last DNS/IP for OSM/APRS-IS (in config file, for connecting without DNS)
Feed-through APRS-IS with local filters (for multiple instances of Win32 version with a single full feed to APRS-IS) (Win32 only)
TCP/Port Data Source/Sink redesign/implementation - Code reduction and shared features (like asynch connect)


RFID Support:
Configuration of "Preferred" RFID reader stations - these respond quickly to RFID reads
Delay RFID read response if from a non-preferred reader
Delay unassigned RFID object creation hoping for a remote RFID read answer
Double-delay unassigned RFID object creation 


Debug Support:
Capture/Display logs from various port drivers
Fine Granularity Enable Debug Logging (sub-sections)
Better performance when doing Debug Logging (really slows down Windows Mobile!)


Documentation:
Update new features in APRSISCE.txt and in the Wiki (http://aprsisce.wikidot.com)
Provide capabilities checklist to Curt WE7U (http://www.eskimo.com/~archer/aprs_capabilities.html)


For the Wiki:
Overall structure before I get too many pages in there!
Click/Double-clicks and menu/keyboard equivalents
Debug logging capture and reporting
Files used and default locations
Updating the .EXE - How simple it is
XML editing procedure (client must be CLOSED)
Automatic filter settings performed by APRSISCE/32
Shortcut creation using File Explorer
What sounds means, especially background sounds
Station text color and closeness in APRSISCE.txt
Moving OSMTiles location
Recommended -SSIDs (link) and caution for uniqueness
Link to Icons and Filter details
Power Considerations (1/26/2010 1:49pm)
Dynamic vs Disable/Enable vs Close/Restart Configuration Changes
Document multi-instance feature on Win32 (caution about APRS-IS connection count)
http://www.jeepreviews.com/wireless-gps-coordinates/
http://www.geocaching.com/wpt/default.aspx
"Slide To Unlock 2" (S2U2) automatic screen locking app http://www.ac-s2.com/ (Jerome WD4CWG)
FINALLY, an up to date APRS Beginner Guide - 2009  http://k9dci.home.comcast.net/APRS Beginner Guide - K9DCI Ver 5-1.pdf 
http://K9DCI.home.comcast.net - Click the APRS Beginner INFO link under Contact
ScreenOff & LvmTopBat (wake up from battery save mode - 10/23/2009 10:02 AM)
http://wa8lmf.net/aprs/JAVaprsFilters.htm
http://www.aprs-is.net/javAPRSFilter.aspx



Capturing a debug log:
1) Bring up the client
2) Turn on Enables / Debug Logging
3) Close the client
4) Bring up the client
5) Wait for a while, then do a screen capture (if you know how) or at 
least note what it says in the APRS Status window (Top center 
(View/Map/Wide) or 2'nd down on the left (View/Map/Narrow))
6) Close the client
7) "Me" popup APRS-IS server info


Requested UI-View AddOn Features:
UI-HeightTrack (Ron K0QVF)
UI-NWS (Ron K0QVF) Shape files (http://www.aprs-is.net/wx/)
UI-Traffic (Ron K0QVF)
UI-WEBServer (Ron K0QVF)
PmapServer (Ron K0QVF)


