Here's what's new in the APRSISCE6P100304.zip and APRSIS321003004.zip

Shuffled one line of code in painting the maps that should result in less time staring at whitespace in certain circumstances.

Send AGW a Version request, Heard stations list, and Port list command at startup to learn more about talking to it.

Remove the GPS Fix box (lower right corner) if a GPS isn't even configured (Win32-only)

Change Tracking(xxxxx-n) and Awaiting(xxxx-n) to Track() and Await() to fit on small Windows Mobile screens (both versions)

Retransmit messages on beacon reception, but only ONE addition retry set (Final vs FINAL)

Corrected a high-speed (Genius / Min Time Rate) beacon if GPS is disabled while moving, now drops back to Max Time rate while disabled

In the absence of a $GPGSA NMEA string (like from a GTRANS cable) to provide 2D or 3D fix type, the Fix pane (lower right) will display Fix or Fix(D) if coordinates are available instead of the "No Fix" it was displaying.  APRSISCE/32 interprets the following NMEA strings: RMC, GGA, GSA, GSV and now (hopefully) GLL (Fred N7FMH)

Expanded the Fix pane width to fit Fix(D).  Previously it barely fit 3D(D)...

If a popup menu has only one station, it is stacked instead of cascaded.  The station ID is the same as Info in the cascade.

Correct s subtle bug when the OSM tile bitmap (in memory) cache gets flushed to zero.  Was causing a heap memory corruption on Windows Mobile...

Remove a completely unused path from messages gated from IS to RF.  Still reading on the proper approach to the 3rd party packet.

Changed default Station.MinAge from 60 to 80 minutes and Station.MaxAge from 0 (unlimited) to 120 per http://www.aprs.org/aprs11.html.  This will not affect existing installations, but ony new installations.  Stations fade out between Min and Max age, but may disappear abruptly beyond MinAge if Stations.MaxCount is exceeded.  If MaxAge is 0, stations don't fade, but will be removed when Stations.MaxCount is reached.

If you fade the OSM maps completely out (left arrow a bunch), it now draws Lat/Lon lines at 10 degree intervals.  If you have a global feed, the effect is quite interesting.

Support View/Symbols/(Custom/Mobile/Weather) as additional filters per symbol definitions on http://www.aprs.org/aprs11.html.  Custom will be configurable in the future, both primary and alternate table symbols, but NOT overlays.

Check the appropriate entry in Tracking menu for Center (other) or Me (me/center) (Bradley KC9GQR)



To Dos:  (Still Incomplete and getting LONGER instead of SHORTER!)

Top item to be done: UI-View Maps, Multi-Port Configuration, Objects, and Message Overhaul

Display improvements:
Dynamically adjust ALL screen panels for maximum size displayed
Extend RF View filter to be by configured interface, eliminate if no RF interfaces are configured
Remove screen elements configurably and/or enable/disable (like GPS)
Rotate icons to show direction of travel (beaconed or calculated) (Dave N8PU)
Custom MessageBox() implementation to support Enable/Sound & Station icons & more
Display grid locator in station info popup (Julian G4ILO)
"Flatten" circle to be a true scale from center
Optionally draw (accurate) PHG circles (View option)
Find a better icon scaling algorithm based on screen size & scale
Detect and highlight source of delayed duplications
Simultaneously track multiple targets in separate circles (Win32 only)
Highlight station list for stations with any of a configurable "HighlightPath" list of "bad" paths (RELAY, WIDE, WIDE3-*, ...)


Mapping Support:
Support checking revision of tiles when loading, via OpenStreetMap.org's /status URL.
OSM Tile access timestamping, revision checking, intelligent purger, grid (pixel?) cache display
Find a way to mark tiles referenced on Windows Mobile without slowing down map loading (queue references to fetcher thread?).
UI-View/.INF map support (Julian G4ILO)
Does anyone know if UI-View correctly scales the N/S via the Mercator projection or does it linearly map the point in the vertical?
Ability to override OSM map tiles for specific areas/zoom levels (Ordnance Survey maps showing contours, footpaths) (Julian G4ILO) (Colin M6XSD) (2/20/2010 6:20am)
Precision Mapping Streets & Traveller (Alan WA4SCA)
Lat/Lon grid on blank "map" screen (Sailor Dave KO4MI)
Use HTTP/1.1 in OSM Tile Fetcher to improve throughput (multiple tile fetches on a single connection).
Support the -180/180 latitude wrap with closest display tile
Allow non-initial (re)configuration of location for OSMTiles cache (w/o editing XML)
Internal support for OSM Map updates (Julian G4ILO)
Deeper zoom on prefetch (4x or straight zoom?) (Fred N7FMH)(kc9gqr)
Map Magnification (and corresponding coordinate adjustment)
Support configuration options for Osmarender and/or Cycle Map tiles from OSM (what about white?) (James VE6SRV) (Fred 



User/Alternate Input:
Numeric keypad shortcuts to some functions (2 for up, 8 down, 4 left, 6 right) (Sean Brad Inggs ZR5BBL)
Sprint Touch Pro 2 zoom slider (http://www.htc.com/us/content/images/phones/touch-pro2-sprint-Support-124.png) (Jason K2ENG) (Noel W8TVI)
Review keyboard access to all click/double-click features
Find station dialog (enter callsign to center)


Cool Features:
GPX track saving for any station (w/inserted comments?) (Julian G4ILO) (Jerome WD4CWG)
"Age" decay the saved track over a configurable period of time (Gary WB0BZR)
Web port for remote viewing (PNG) of current screen
Screen save in PNG format.
Alerts on various station activity (Tim G4VXE)
"Station Movement Alarm" (Gary WB0BZR)
Arrival alarm (Dave N8PU)
Alternate Net (aprs101.pdf Chap 4) via user-specified ToCall
Make APRSIS32 work under Wine (David WE1U) (Chris KJ4HPQ) (Josh W4SGC)
Display and set "Destination Waypoints" (http://wa8lmf.net/bruninga/APRS-docs/MOBILE.TXT)
Implement a compass direction/distance screen for homing in on GeoCaches.


Parser/Station Information:
CWOP feed (maybe Win32 only)
Weather parsing and graphing
Telemetry parsing and graphing, Configure telemetry rate, include OWN telemetry graphs!
<IGATE capabilities parsing and graphing (and now <RFID?)
Parse and display Frequency object information
Add RF traffic and IGate rates to Telemetry
Parse and display grid-square beacons appropriately (whatever that means)


Messaging Subsystem:
CQSRVR custom support, auto-keepalive, queries
Enhanced message support (Julian G4ILO)
Support remaining message-based queries, Configurable suppression of auto-answers
"Group" messages per spec (ALL QST CQ - aprs101.pdf Page 72) (Julian G4ILO)
Receive all messages for base callsign, ack only matching -SSID
Bulletin support - Sending and Viewing (Julian G4ILO) (http://aprs.fi/bulletin/)
Remember and provide for re-display of received messages.
If target station's platform is known, format message sending screen accordingly.
Support more ?APRSx queries


APRS Objects:
Support object creation and beaconing
Support sending "Item-As-Message" to stations
Interpret sent "Item-As-Message" for local display


Power Management:
Program-configurable screen dim, blank, and power control (Jeff KC8NNO)
Figure out how to use WiFi rather than Cellular data when available (Julian G4ILO)
Auto GPS disable if no fix within a minimum time (Julian G4ILO) (1/26/2010 8:25pm)


Installation/First Use/Configuration:
Installation .CAB file w/Icon as well (Kevin N1KCG-12)
Icon selection dialog showing all (or more than one) icon
"Coordinate Picker" dialog for centering, objects, Item-As-Message
Better, explicit, Buddy configuration (reserve one for tracking)
Preserve comments in XML configuration file (if parser even gives them to me) (Dave N8PU)
Multiple profile capability with quick switch (beaconing, Icon, status, and such; Hiking, Biking, Mobile, QTH/Stationary)
WinCE support (Mustafa AYDIN 1/29/2010 12:05pm) (David VE7MDT 2/1/2010 9:49am)

Metric units (Julian G4ILO)
Allow configuration of date/time display & GMT vs local (Dave N8PU)
Make Local Hops, Recent Minutes, and Duplicate Seconds configuration options
Make Message Retry parameters configuration options


RF Interfaces:
Restrict Gating to RF to only those channels that heard the station
Digipeater support with configured list of WIDEn-N aliases, Default to TEMP1-1, always digi own callsign-SSID
UI-View-compatible enter/exit KISS mode command file support (John Q1EUH)
KISS TNC initialization files (adopt UI-View syntax)
Do something with the Xmit checkboxes on port configuration dialogs
AGWPE(pro) bi-directional support w/Port spec as well (Randy WF5X) (Andy AB9FX)
Transmit support for AGW as well as Port selection for both receive and transmit
MultiPort Status Monitor (multi-line or alternating APRS OK?) w/Log view windows
Link-specific status text and paths (Phillip ZL2TZE)


GPS Support:
GPS "Jitter" control when "stationary" (Paul KJ4DXK) (Disable Genius Beaconing?)
Update Bluetooth Port Enumerator to show all under Windows Mobile
Optionally transmit either 1 or 2 !DAO! digits.
Support Mic-E and GridSquare beacon formats
Support optional beacon components (timestamp, speed/heading, altitude, ...)


Network Features:
Asynchronous TCP/IP connections & reading (solves hangs)
Timeout on OSM Tile fetcher (solves stalls)
Record/Recall last DNS/IP for OSM/APRS-IS (in config file, for connecting without DNS)
Feed-through APRS-IS with local filters (for multiple instances of Win32 version with a single full feed to APRS-IS) (Win32 only)
TCP/Port Data Source/Sink redesign/implementation - Code reduction and shared features (like asynch connect)


RFID Support:
Configuration of "Preferred" RFID reader stations - these respond quickly to RFID reads
Delay RFID read response if from a non-preferred reader
Delay unassigned RFID object creation hoping for a remote RFID read answer
Double-delay unassigned RFID object creation 


Debug Support:
Capture/Display logs from various port drivers
Fine Granularity Enable Debug Logging (sub-sections)
Better performance when doing Debug Logging (really slows down Windows Mobile!)
Automatic notification and download of new versions


Documentation:
Update new features in APRSISCE.txt and in the Wiki (http://aprsisce.wikidot.com)
Provide capabilities checklist to Curt WE7U (http://www.eskimo.com/~archer/aprs_capabilities.html)


For the Wiki:
Overall structure before I get too many pages in there!
Click/Double-clicks and menu/keyboard equivalents
Debug logging capture and reporting
Files used and default locations
XML editing procedure (client must be CLOSED)
Automatic filter settings performed by APRSISCE/32
Shortcut creation using File Explorer
What sounds means, especially background sounds
Station text color and closeness in APRSISCE.txt
Moving OSMTiles location
Recommended -SSIDs (link) and caution for uniqueness
Link to Icons and Filter details
Power Considerations (1/26/2010 1:49pm)
Dynamic vs Disable/Enable vs Close/Restart Configuration Changes
http://www.jeepreviews.com/wireless-gps-coordinates/
http://www.geocaching.com/wpt/default.aspx
"Slide To Unlock 2" (S2U2) automatic screen locking app http://www.ac-s2.com/ (Jerome WD4CWG)


Capturing a debug log:
1) Bring up the client
2) Turn on Enables / Debug Logging
3) Close the client
4) Bring up the client
5) Wait for a while, then do a screen capture (if you know how) or at 
least note what it says in the APRS Status window (Top center 
(View/Map/Wide) or 2'nd down on the left (View/Map/Narrow))
6) Close the client
7) "Me" popup APRS-IS server info


Requested UI-View AddOn Features:
UI-HeightTrack (Ron K0QVF)
UI-NWS (Ron K0QVF)
UI-Traffic (Ron K0QVF)
UI-WEBServer (Ron K0QVF)
PmapServer (Ron K0QVF)


