Here's what's new in the APRSISCE6P100309.zip and APRSIS321003009.zip

Exhausted retry message display now will do seconds, minutes, hours, or days ago (exactly how long IS 468 minutes?  7.8 hours makes more sense.)

If an Await(XXXX-N) station is not discovered before closing the client, don't forget to keep waiting for the station on restart. (Gary WB0BZR) (Dave N8PU)

Fix OSMPath length so that it doesn't truncate for "reasonable" length directory paths (James VE6SRV)

Put a progress bar on fetching non-tile data (Addresses and Updated .EXEs)

Change APRSISCE progname (reported to APRS-IS server) to APRSISCE6P to match .EXE name and provide room for additional CE builds if necessary.

The About dialog box checks for, confirms, and downloads .EXE updates if Internet-connected.  It will say "Current Version Verified" if it checked and you are already running the latest.  No longer necessary to download .ZIP and copy .EXEs.  Original .EXE is saved under a release date name.

Additionally, if APRS-IS is enabled, the program will periodically check for new versions and send itself an APRS message when one is available.  Default is to check every 2 days with additional reminders every 7 days.  For the REALLY brave, you can set <Update.Development> to 1 to get my incremental development builds (note that these may be COMPLETELY broken at times).

If a tracking station exceeds the MaxAge, change from Track(XXXXX-N) to Await(XXXXX-N) and retain across process restarts.  This works best with Screen / Tracking / Locked.

Add Hours and Days to how long ago a Pending Message was retried.  Also add "Second" to the active retries if Retriggered by a newly received packet.

Preserve Await(XXXXX-N) status across restarts, even if the station had not been heard yet.

Support $GPVTG sentence from Delorme's Bluetooth GPS (Speed-only)

Support View / Ambiguous to show only stations that are using ambiguity in their beaconed position

Draw a purplish circle at the range of an ambiguously positioned station.  Also, put the station 1/2 into the ambiguous region (latitude only) like aprs.fi.  (However, aprs.fi also moves the longitude, I don't per spec) (Circles on Win32 for performance reasons)

Add an Hourly packet count to Station Popup, differentiating between RF (only), IS (only), and I+R (both)  (Win32 only for vertical size restrictions)

Support ?APRSH to send back an RF-heard station list.  ?APRSH <station> will send back the hourly packet counts heard from that station (both RF and IS) (Win32 only for memory considerations, although you can send the message from CE)

Parse Mic-E message text and display in Station Popup (Mic-E: xxxx) if known for a station

Deal with stations that put spaces after their ackxxxx or rejxxxx message (N4GVA-2 in CONV mode!)

Handle a ?APRSM query by re-initiating retries for all messages for the sending station.  A response is sent with the requeued message count.

Handle a ?APRSV or ?VER query by sending back the client's timestamp (version) string

Change ?APRS to ?APRS? to initiate a remotely-triggered forced Transmit (only if Tracking is enabled)

Change Rel: and Pos: to Ctr: (Center) and ME: (Me) for relative position information in station popup.  Bearing is now FROM the station TO either the center or My coordinates.  (Win32 displays all, Mobile displays 1).

Display "Ambiguity: NNN nm" in the popup if station is using ambiguity.  On Mobile, this trumps teh Ctr: and/or ME: lines in the station popup.

Lat/Lon grid on blank "map" screen if you fade the OSM to nothing it displays 10 degree lines (Sailor Dave KO4MI)




To Dos:  (Still Incomplete and getting LONGER instead of SHORTER!)

Top item to be done: UI-View Maps, Multi-Port Configuration, Objects, and Message Overhaul

Display improvements:
Dynamically adjust ALL screen panels for maximum size displayed
Extend RF View filter to be by configured interface, eliminate if no RF interfaces are configured
Remove screen elements configurably and/or enable/disable (like GPS)
Rotate icons to show direction of travel (beaconed or calculated) (Dave N8PU)
Custom MessageBox() implementation to support Enable/Sound & Station icons & more
Display grid locator in station info popup (Julian G4ILO)
"Flatten" circle to be a true scale from center
Optionally draw (accurate) PHG circles (View option)
Find a better icon scaling algorithm based on screen size & scale
Detect and highlight source of delayed duplications
Simultaneously track multiple targets in separate circles (Win32 only)
Highlight station list for stations with any of a configurable "HighlightPath" list of "bad" paths (RELAY, WIDE, WIDE3-*, ...)
Option to display callsign instead of "Me" and/or completely suppress the "Me" station. (Rod VE1BSK)
Display "Me" with a different symbol than is beaconed (allows for red dot) (Fred N7FMH)
Support +/- symbol size adjustment for Me and/or Tracked station symbol (separately) (Fred N7FMH)
Tab-based station selection (highlighting or expanding as you tab around) with popup-on-entry for keyboard support
Mouse-hover popup describing screen section? (Configurably disabled/time-triggered/re-enablable)
Display object name/originating station rather than IGate in Scrolling Station pane (Fred N7FMH)



Mapping Support:
Support checking revision of tiles when loading, via OpenStreetMap.org's /status URL.
OSM Tile access timestamping, revision checking, intelligent purger, grid (pixel?) cache display
Find a way to mark tiles referenced on Windows Mobile without slowing down map loading (queue references to fetcher thread?).
UI-View/.INF map support (Julian G4ILO)
Does anyone know if UI-View correctly scales the N/S via the Mercator projection or does it linearly map the point in the vertical?
Ability to override OSM map tiles for specific areas/zoom levels (Ordnance Survey maps showing contours, footpaths) (Julian G4ILO) (Colin M6XSD) (2/20/2010 6:20am)
Precision Mapping Streets & Traveller (Alan WA4SCA)
Use HTTP/1.1 in OSM Tile Fetcher to improve throughput (multiple tile fetches on a single connection).
Support the -180/180 latitude wrap with closest display tile
Allow non-initial (re)configuration of location for OSMTiles cache (w/o editing XML)
Internal support for OSM Map updates (Julian G4ILO)
Deeper zoom on prefetch (4x or straight zoom?) (Fred N7FMH)(kc9gqr)
Map Magnification (and corresponding coordinate adjustment)
Free Space Limit beyond which Tile Fetcher shuts itself down (KA4EPS)
Support configuration options for Osmarender and/or Cycle Map tiles from OSM (what about white?) (James VE6SRV) (Fred N7FMH)
Display zoom level on screen and allow user to further restrict available levels (Fred N7FMH)
Detect missing OSMTiles directory and prompt user to browse to find it (Colin M6XSD)


Filter Features:
Track station as Buddy (just station) or Friend (moving range circle)
Configurable ranges for Me, Tracked, Dragged



User/Alternate Input:
Numeric keypad shortcuts to some functions (2 for up, 8 down, 4 left, 6 right) (Sean Brad Inggs ZR5BBL)
Sprint Touch Pro 2 zoom slider (http://www.htc.com/us/content/images/phones/touch-pro2-sprint-Support-124.png) (Jason K2ENG) (Noel W8TVI)
Review keyboard access to all click/double-click features
Find station dialog (enter callsign to center)


Cool Features:
GPX track saving for any station (w/inserted comments?) (Julian G4ILO) (Jerome WD4CWG)
"Age" decay the saved track over a configurable period of time (Gary WB0BZR)
Web port for remote viewing (PNG) of current screen
Screen save in PNG format.
Alerts on various station activity (Tim G4VXE)
"Station Movement Alarm" (Gary WB0BZR)
Arrival alarm (Dave N8PU)
Add Today screen element for direct access to client (w/messages pending display?)
Dead-reckoned "shadow" station running out ahead of the last beaconed position (for how long/how far?)(Only tracked station(s) or Buddies/Friends?)
"Highlight Path" from a configurable list of "Interesting" paths (WIDE7-7) (Fred N7FWM)
Alternate Net (aprs101.pdf Chap 4) via user-specified ToCall
Make APRSIS32 work under Wine (David WE1U) (Chris KJ4HPQ) (Josh W4SGC)
Display and set "Destination Waypoints" (http://wa8lmf.net/bruninga/APRS-docs/MOBILE.TXT)
Implement a compass direction/distance screen for homing in on GeoCaches.
Lightning bolts from station to station that was recently involved in an RF exchange (possibly even red->green coloring to indicate direction), Only on reasonable zooms and probably only Win32.  You'd be able to visualize the Digis and IGates and possibly their interactions in near realtime.
Pulse a station icon when a new packet was received.  Only on reasonable zooms and probably only Win32.


Parser/Station Information:
CWOP feed (maybe Win32 only)
Weather parsing and graphing
Telemetry parsing and graphing, Configure telemetry rate, include OWN telemetry graphs!
<IGATE capabilities parsing and graphing (and now <RFID?)
Parse and display Frequency object information
Add RF traffic and IGate rates to Telemetry
Parse and display grid-square beacons appropriately (whatever that means)


Messaging Subsystem:
CQSRVR custom support, auto-keepalive, queries
Enhanced message support (Julian G4ILO)
Support remaining message-based queries, Configurable suppression of auto-answers
"Group" messages per spec (ALL QST CQ - aprs101.pdf Page 72) (Julian G4ILO)
Receive all messages for base callsign, ack only matching -SSID
Bulletin support - Sending and Viewing (Julian G4ILO) (http://aprs.fi/bulletin/)
Remember and provide for re-display of received messages.
If target station's platform is known, format message sending screen accordingly.
Support more ?APRSx queries
Select specific RF Interfaces for message transmission
Thumbnail map (zoomable, of course) of user's current location in QSO window


APRS Objects:
Support object creation and beaconing
Support sending "Item-As-Message" to stations
Interpret sent "Item-As-Message" for local display


Power Management:
Program-configurable screen dim, blank, and power control (Jeff KC8NNO)
Figure out how to use WiFi rather than Cellular data when available (Julian G4ILO)
Auto GPS disable if no fix within a minimum time (Julian G4ILO) (1/26/2010 8:25pm)


Installation/First Use/Configuration:
Installation .CAB file w/Icon as well (Kevin N1KCG-12)
Better, explicit, Buddy configuration (reserve one for tracking)
Preserve comments in XML configuration file (if parser even gives them to me) (Dave N8PU)
Multiple profile capability with quick switch (beaconing, Icon, status, and such; Hiking, Biking, Mobile, QTH/Stationary)
WinCE support (Mustafa AYDIN 1/29/2010 12:05pm) (David VE7MDT 2/1/2010 9:49am)
XML item based advanced configuration for things not on the Configuration dialog.
Dynamic configuration changes/menu enables to avoid program restarts (Julian G4ILO)
"Coordinate Picker" dialog for centering, objects, Item-As-Message
Icon selection dialog showing all (or more than one) icon (Keyboard accessible)
Don't allow / as an overlay (switch back to primary table)
Show character rather than ASCII value in symbol configuration spin buttons (Gerard VK2JNG)


Metric units (Julian G4ILO)
Allow configuration of date/time display & GMT vs local (Dave N8PU)
Make Local Hops, Recent Minutes, and Duplicate Seconds configuration options
Make Message Retry parameters configuration options


RF Interfaces:
Restrict Gating to RF to only those channels that heard the station
Digipeater support with configured list of WIDEn-N aliases, Default to TEMP1-1, always digi own callsign-SSID
UI-View-compatible enter/exit KISS mode command file support (John Q1EUH)
KISS TNC initialization files (adopt UI-View syntax)
Do something with the Xmit checkboxes on port configuration dialogs
AGWPE(pro) bi-directional support w/Port spec as well (Randy WF5X) (Andy AB9FX)
Transmit support for AGW as well as Port selection for both receive and transmit
MultiPort Status Monitor (multi-line or alternating APRS OK?) w/Log view windows
Link-specific status text and paths (Phillip ZL2TZE)
Warn or disallow multi-selection of a single COM port for multiple I/Fs (Colin M6XSD)
Configuration of receive-only, staggered transmission, and/or beacons vs IGate per port
-IS to RF gate functionality to a) gate none (as it does today), b) gate all messages to stations "recently" "heard" locally, or c) gate only Acks to stations from whom a message was recently received (and said ack not heard via RF yet after a short random delay?).  C would accomplish a PSK-63 initiated QSO without risking flooding the channel with stuff that doesn't need to be there.
Support Kenwood D7x0 in non-KISS (Text/Converse?) mode with interleaved NMEA GPS feed (James VE6SRV 3/4/2010 12:55 PM)


GPS Support:
GPS "Jitter" control when "stationary" (Paul KJ4DXK) (Disable Genius Beaconing?)
Update Bluetooth Port Enumerator to show all under Windows Mobile
Optionally transmit either 1 or 2 !DAO! digits.
Support Mic-E and GridSquare beacon formats
Support optional beacon components (timestamp, speed/heading, altitude, ...)


Network Features:
Asynchronous TCP/IP connections & reading (solves hangs)
Timeout on OSM Tile fetcher (solves stalls)
Record/Recall last DNS/IP for OSM/APRS-IS (in config file, for connecting without DNS)
Feed-through APRS-IS with local filters (for multiple instances of Win32 version with a single full feed to APRS-IS) (Win32 only)
TCP/Port Data Source/Sink redesign/implementation - Code reduction and shared features (like asynch connect)


RFID Support:
Configuration of "Preferred" RFID reader stations - these respond quickly to RFID reads
Delay RFID read response if from a non-preferred reader
Delay unassigned RFID object creation hoping for a remote RFID read answer
Double-delay unassigned RFID object creation 


Debug Support:
Capture/Display logs from various port drivers
Fine Granularity Enable Debug Logging (sub-sections)
Better performance when doing Debug Logging (really slows down Windows Mobile!)
Automatic notification and download of new versions


Documentation:
Update new features in APRSISCE.txt and in the Wiki (http://aprsisce.wikidot.com)
Provide capabilities checklist to Curt WE7U (http://www.eskimo.com/~archer/aprs_capabilities.html)


For the Wiki:
Overall structure before I get too many pages in there!
Click/Double-clicks and menu/keyboard equivalents
Debug logging capture and reporting
Files used and default locations
Updating the .EXE - How simple it is
XML editing procedure (client must be CLOSED)
Automatic filter settings performed by APRSISCE/32
Shortcut creation using File Explorer
What sounds means, especially background sounds
Station text color and closeness in APRSISCE.txt
Moving OSMTiles location
Recommended -SSIDs (link) and caution for uniqueness
Link to Icons and Filter details
Power Considerations (1/26/2010 1:49pm)
Dynamic vs Disable/Enable vs Close/Restart Configuration Changes
Document multi-instance feature on Win32 (caution about APRS-IS connection count)
http://www.jeepreviews.com/wireless-gps-coordinates/
http://www.geocaching.com/wpt/default.aspx
"Slide To Unlock 2" (S2U2) automatic screen locking app http://www.ac-s2.com/ (Jerome WD4CWG)
FINALLY, an up to date APRS Beginner Guide - 2009  http://k9dci.home.comcast.net/APRS Beginner Guide - K9DCI Ver 5-1.pdf 
http://K9DCI.home.comcast.net - Click the APRS Beginner INFO link under Contact
ScreenOff & LvmTopBat (wake up from battery save mode - 10/23/2009 10:02 AM)
http://wa8lmf.net/aprs/JAVaprsFilters.htm
http://www.aprs-is.net/javAPRSFilter.aspx



Capturing a debug log:
1) Bring up the client
2) Turn on Enables / Debug Logging
3) Close the client
4) Bring up the client
5) Wait for a while, then do a screen capture (if you know how) or at 
least note what it says in the APRS Status window (Top center 
(View/Map/Wide) or 2'nd down on the left (View/Map/Narrow))
6) Close the client
7) "Me" popup APRS-IS server info


Requested UI-View AddOn Features:
UI-HeightTrack (Ron K0QVF)
UI-NWS (Ron K0QVF) Shape files (
UI-Traffic (Ron K0QVF)
UI-WEBServer (Ron K0QVF)
PmapServer (Ron K0QVF)


